We are in Ephesians chapter 3, 1 through 7 today.
And God bless you guys for making it out.
I think this is the way to go.
Get the word in, then settle in for a little snow, what may come.
I was just pondering snow and thinking about that today.
Here comes more snow from what we did have.
When I get home, I'm going to put grass seed down in my front yard.
And because it's a beautiful opportunity, when the snow comes, it sits on top of the grass seed and then it pushes the seed down into the soil.
And not to mention, snow has nitrogen in it.
And so it's gonna fertilize it along the way, push it in, the grass isn't high.
And then it will germinate as it was designed, the seeds designed to, you know, germinate at a certain soil, at a certain temperature.
So it's not gonna germinate until that temperature comes and spring comes and the likes of it.
And I just thought about that in the relation of the seed of the word of God.
Like the beautiful way
that even in the midst of a day like today.
And I'm thankful for days like today.
I mean, it was a little long, that last snow, but I like the day where, you know, it's like, okay, you know what, it's a settle in day.
And just sit, we got, go home, snow's gonna start falling, we'll see how it impacts work tomorrow and all those type of things, but it's kind of like, get home,
Park it by 6 p.m. Whatever you're doing settle in and let it snow and just let you know Enjoy that beauty oven.
I think there's just something that the Lord does by giving us this.
Hey, let's just slow it down Let's just settle it in and then hey, you know let the snow So and nurture the word of God
Maybe tonight you read another couple chapters or just rest in the Lord.
You know, what else is amazing about snow?
Isn't it beautiful though?
I mean, driving it in this and that, shoveling it apart from that.
When you look at snow, it's just beautiful.
When you look at snow and you're watching it fall and you're looking at snow and it covers the ground, especially when you've been blessed to just sit inside
and be warm and not have to be outside in it unless you want to be in those type of things.
It's just so, it's just a beautiful thing.
And then of course the under the microscope thing and those type of things of, you know, every snowflake is unique.
You know, what's interesting about the whole matter is snow came after the fall.
And yet God in some miraculous
genius that's beyond our understanding knew and designed snow knowing that a fall was going to happen and for all those hundreds of years before the fall there was no snow but then after the fall here comes because I'm saying I don't know when Adam and Eve fell
other than they fell in the garden, what time period that was.
But he knew a fall was coming, and yet still he could take something like snow and turn it into absolute beauty.
And I hope you are feeling where I'm going with this.
Isn't it amazing that what God has done in your life and what God has done in my life
Even knowing the fall was going to come, even knowing that we were going to fall into that sin and yet how he could just like the snow go.
But wait till you see what I can do with the beauty of this vessel that after the fall turned it into this miraculous marvelous trophy of grace.
It's just beautiful as I think about snow and then looking at our passage before us today and we're gonna look at verses one through seven and let's read it and then we'll get into it and pray.
For this reason, I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for you Gentiles, if indeed you've heard the dispensation of
the grace of God, which was given to me for you, how that by revelation he made known to me the mystery, as I have briefly written already, by which when you read, read, you may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ, which in other ages was not made known to the sons of men, but as it is now been revealed by the spirit to his holy apostles and prophets,
that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ through the gospel, verse seven, of which I became a minister according to the gift of the grace of God given to me by the effective working of his power.
Title of my message is the flood of grace.
I just love this word, dispensation.
It almost sings like a,
like a ocean or like a waterfall.
It just kind of sings this word, dispensation of grace, just an outpouring and the flowing of grace.
And Paul's going to explain this and think about this.
And here's what dispensation, it's the Greek word, oinconoma, okay?
Sound maybe close to a familiar?
Oink economy.
It's where we get our word economy.
And when we talk about economy, it's the way things are done.
It's an order.
It's an administration of this is how we set these things up and this is how it's going to be run and exercise.
And this is what the Lord's speaking to us.
And here's what he's going to speak to us through these seven verses.
My order and the way I'm going to administrate my will on this earth.
And it can't be undone.
Satan can't turn it over, wars can't turn it over, sin can't turn it over, the fall of mankind cannot turn it over.
This is how I'm going to administer this period of time, and it cannot be changed under any circumstance.
My ministry, and Paul wrote this in 60 AD, until I return is pure grace.
Nothing else but grace.
And we'll talk about a fallen world and those type of things.
But maybe you're sitting here today like myself, I can be the same.
Grace for everybody but me because of what I am or lack thereof and wish I could be or didn't do.
And now I look back and all these type of things.
And God will speak to me and he'll speak to you, Ray.
Nothing will change the way I'm gonna minister to you.
Nothing's gonna change the way that I'm gonna handle and deal with you.
Nothing but grace.
God's riches at Christ expense and nothing can turn that over.
So Father, we bless you for the dispensation of grace, the flood of grace that you pour out upon us and you give to us.
And I thank you that you've given us a time such as this today, before snow, before maybe a settling in for 24 hours or whatever it may be.
that you would pour out your word, the living word, the seed.
and you're gonna nourish it like the snow does to the seed of with nitrogen but it's gonna be with your spirit as you spoke the Paul and you're gonna give that same spirit to us and the same spirit that rose Jesus from the grave lives in us we are the temple of the living God and you are gonna minister to us and you're gonna deal with us and you're gonna work with us in this one way and nothing can change that
it is going to be by your grace.
And your grace is all an outcome of your love.
And your love went to the cross.
So Lord, show us this love, show us this grace.
But by no way do we look and think there's something less than a high calling.
And so speak to our hearts.
We pray in your name.
Amen.
Ephesians chapter 3 verse 1 through 7, for this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for you Gentiles.
Paul's in prison.
He has put in the prison because of his willingness and his willingness to preach the word, his unwillingness to recant.
And you know, here's the thing.
And we can go deeper and deeper and we will over the weeks to come.
You know, all Paul had to do was just go quiet.
That's all he had to do.
If he would have just been quiet, if he would have just walked away and go, you know, it's not worth the fight, or if he would have just been quiet and when he was given the opportunity, he could have just said, you know what, let them all deal with it on their own.
I'm out.
I'm just going to go back, I'm going to live my life, I'm going to have this good life.
But here's what Paul, all this began back in Acts chapter 21.
He's in the prison in Rome and he's in a house arrest right now.
He's not in that horrible Roman dungeon type prison, but we'll talk more about that in the weeks to come.
But here he is.
He's taken these Jewish men up to the temple for the purification, which is part of a Jewish ritual there.
Acts 21 verse 26 through 33, and it's important for us to get this because of these beginning words, the prisoner of Christ.
Acts 21 verse 26, then Paul took the men,
And the next day, having been purified with them, entered the temple to announce the expiration of the days of purification, at which time an offering should be made for each one of them.
Now, when the seven days were almost ended, the Jews from Asia, seeing him in the temple, stirred up the whole crowd and laid hands on him, crying, Men of Israel, help!
This is the man who teaches all men everywhere against the people, the law and this place.
And furthermore, he also brought Greeks into the temple and has devout this holy place.
For they had previous seen trophomies, the Ephesians with him in the city, whom they suppose that Paul had brought into the temple.
Remember last week's study?
No Gentile could go into the temple.
In fact, you saw the sign, cross this line, die if you're a Gentile.
And so here they are, they think Paul's broken that sign, that law, and brought men into the men's court, which is right outside the holy place inside the temple, verse 30.
And all this city was disturbed
and the people ran together, seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple, and immediately the doors were shut.
Now as they were seeking to kill him, news came to the commander, the garrison, that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.
He immediately took soldiers and centurions, ran down to them, and when they saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.
Then the commander came near, took him and commanded him to be bound with two chains and asked him who he was and what he had done, and then here's the story goes.
And he ends up, these accusations,
threats against his life, ambushes, all these type of things, standing before Herod and all these things, and then he appeals to Caesar, and now here he is, he's before Caesar.
Every step of the way that I just said, he could have easily stopped and said,
just let's just let this go let's just forget all these type of things you know I I see the misunderstanding I know you're upset let me just make an agreement with you I'll just be quiet if you let me just be quiet and here he is living in this place but now he's in Rome he's lost his free will rights if you would from that manner and here he stops and here he is and he writes to us this
epistle and verse one says for this reason I Paul the prisoner prisoner of Christ Jesus for you Gentiles you ever sit there in your desk your office wherever you do your morning devotions and do you ever feel totally
drained, empty, tired.
Maybe if it's even hard for you to open your word.
But you've been there because I know you have, and then you start to read your word.
And then all of a sudden the emptiness begins to fade.
The fatigue begins to lift.
And then all of a sudden there's a refreshing and a feeling that happens.
Well, two things are happening that I know
One of them is, you're feeding your spirit, which is God himself last week's study, who lives in you now.
And as the word of God goes in, it's the word of God stirring, and again, beyond my comprehension, how all that, I take it by faith, the Trinity, I take it by faith because his word says it, and he lives in me, and that the word's going in, and it's like
making a banquet in the buffet for the spirit living in us, then all of a sudden you find yourself being lifted and you find yourself being refreshed, and it's because you're feeding this spirit that lives in you, but you know, secondly, it's happening.
You're coming back as the word of God's gonna speak to you and me.
It's impossible to read this word without coming to the cause of why you exist.
the cause of why you live.
This verse one, maybe you have your translation.
We're in New King James and both words are correct for this reason, but maybe your translation says for this cause.
You know, when you wake up to a cause and for a cause,
your whole life will change.
Greg Laurie, pastor, harvest, harvest.
I love what he always says.
What wakes you up in the morning, an alarm or a calling?
And I think and I look at that and I know when I start reading the word and my spirit starts coming alive in me, but then as the word starts speaking and I start realizing I have a cause for life.
I'm not just going through life.
I'm just not meandering through life that I have a cause for life and I have a reason for life.
The reason of things that I do is because God has called me to it.
But the cause is what God had called me to do.
And I wake up and I go forward and I have these things in my life that I can say, I have a cause.
And it's beyond anything in this world.
No job, no prosperity.
And I'm not saying anything's wrong with those things, of course.
No hobbies, no relationships or any of those things.
But Lord, you've given me a cause.
And my cause is to be the witness for Christ.
And God gives everybody a specific cause.
My cause is in this place for the furtherance of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
And as I live with this cause, I do it because
the reason God has called me, but my heart stirs because I have a cause that changes the whole world, richer than anything this world has to offer me.
And here's one of the things I find.
For anybody listening, for anybody here, podcasts, whatever it may be, here's what I find very much the differentiating between the Christians that I know
that have quit, and the Christians that I know that are victorious.
The Christians I know that have quit, they have no cause.
They're happy to be saved.
They accept that, that hasn't changed, that's a gift, but they don't have a cause and therefore they just kind of go with whatever the day brings them.
But the Christians I know live in the victory,
that are living this victorious Christian life.
I watch time and time again.
They withstand all that can come against them, all that the devil throws against them because they have a cause.
And here Paul, for this reason slash cause, I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for you Gentiles, could not be stopped.
They stone him, they imprison him, they slander him.
They take a man of righteousness with all this respect before him and slander his name and make his name a curse word through Jerusalem and Israel.
And yet the man can get stoned in the book of Acts, get up, dust himself off and say, let's go back into that city and preach.
You cannot stop a man or woman of God that has a cause.
And if you're thinking of quitting,
today or just going into neutral, I would ask you to pray with the time that you have later today in the snow and just settling in.
What is my cause?
What is my reason here for living?
And what do you have?
But you know, I, Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ, notice two things here.
He's the prisoner of Christ Jesus.
But it's for the Gentiles.
Last week's study, he'll build on this as he's saying God has made one body Jew and Gentile now and we'll keep building on this through this chapter as it began in chapter two and we looked at these type of things.
But here's again the question for you.
Here's a question for me.
It's a great evaluation to consider two questions.
Are you willing to be the prisoner of Jesus Christ?
And then secondly, and if so, for who?
Paul has two things here.
I'm a prisoner of Jesus Christ, but there's a reason that he's saying he's a prisoner.
It's for the Jews.
Paul was the freest man in the prison.
because he was not bound into that prison because he's not saying, I, Paul, a prisoner of the Jews or I, Paul, the prisoner of Nero.
I, Paul, the prisoner of the Roman Empire.
He's in a Roman prison saying that he is a prisoner of Jesus Christ.
You know who held the keys to that prison door?
It was Paul.
And you know, for you and for me, we have the keys to the prison door that we can open and set us free.
There's a lock that imprisons you and imprisons me.
And it's a lock with a key of bitterness, resentment, criticality, consequences that we feel are unfair to us.
And yet Paul had the key to unlock those things, to set his spirit free that the, I'm not in here and it's bound here in bitterness, resent criticality of the lies they made about me, the attacks they did on to me.
I'm wrongly here.
Paul had the keys.
He set himself free.
And he goes, I'm here because God put me here.
And you can see where this,
verse, the power of it would bring you and I to this place.
Do you feel that you're a prisoner because of somebody else's cause, reason?
Do you feel that you're living in a prison because of what someone did to you?
Do you feel that you're in a prison because of bad decisions?
Do you feel that you're in a prison because of a circumstance in your life and here you are that someone else did something and these things, but things to you?
And if you notice Paul,
Paul's going, all those things and we'll read were for his glory to bring him glory.
But I am not here because of that.
I'm here because God allowed me to be here, brought me to be here and determined this is where I should be.
And here's if you get one thing out of today's message, write it down.
It's literally kind of a summation of verse one.
who controls your situation will determine how much your situation controls you.
If I let someone else determine that I'm in this situation because of them, that will determine how much that situation controls me.
But if I sit there and go, you know what, Lord?
I'm a prisoner of Jesus Christ.
It's not them that I'm waiting for
some change or relief or freedom, but I am here because of what you've decided and therefore I can be free knowing that I'm in the perfect place that you called me to.
And you know what?
Before we move off this verse, I bet you everybody in this room will all say the same thing.
I'll gladly be a prisoner of Jesus Christ.
I'm your prisoner Lord you save me you love me and I thank you for it and I'm a prisoner of Jesus Christ and then I'll say as God would say to you as he said to Paul I'm a prisoner of Jesus Christ for the Gentiles then I'll say everything changes I'm gonna be a prisoner of Jesus Christ I'll go serve you I'll do this and I'll do that and then he goes
The Lord speaks to you like he spoke to Paul, and I want you to be a prisoner to that person.
We go, well, wait a minute.
I'll be your prisoner, but to be a prisoner to them, do you know what they did to me?
Do you know what they say about me?
Do you know how they've treated me and all these type of things?
Then all of a sudden we find ourselves in this place of, I don't think I want to be a prisoner to them.
And guess what just happened?
You're no longer a prisoner of Jesus Christ.
you're determining what cells you're willing to go to, you're determining what keys you're willing to open or not open.
And then we come to this, who controls your situation?
We'll determine how much your situation controls you.
And you'll never be able to be a prisoner to the Gentiles or the person or whatever the situation is until you're willing to be the prisoner of Jesus Christ.
It's his, him first, and then, okay Lord, here we go, and now
Here we are in this place.
And here's what I'll say.
There will always be a yielding before a fulfilling.
We have to yield and believe, Lord, you've controlled this, you've allowed this.
This is where you've put me and you're doing something in me at the minimum.
And then Lord willing, you'll do something in the person that I'm a prisoner for because
Maybe it's the world, maybe it's a specific person, whatever that may be, but there's always gonna be a yielding before this fulfilling that I'm gonna see what God's doing and these type of things.
So again, the question's gonna be, are you willing to be a prisoner of Jesus Christ?
And if so, as well, who are you willing to be a prisoner for?
Richard Wernbrand, what a story, not sure if he's
home with the Lord yet or not.
But in the communist days of Romania and there was an absolute zero tolerance, it became under communism for the Christian faith.
And he was a pastor, he was outspoken against
communism, he was outspoken against the atheist basis of it and then the silencing of the church and the controlling of the church and we see that in the communist nation still yet today and so many things we can go on with that conversation right there.
He was put in a Romanian prison, horrible prison,
nothing like an American prison, beaten daily.
They would take his and you can read his memoir.
It's called Tortured for Christ.
They would put him in a box for whole days and the box was a coffin and the coffin, the box was stood up straight and it had nails.
all the way through it, front and back.
So the prisoners would have to stand in this box shaped like a coffin.
And of course, you couldn't lean back.
You couldn't lean forward.
You couldn't fall asleep.
And they would just torture them with that.
They would take Richard Wormbrand and other prisoners, and they would put them in these stocks, take off their shoes, and just mercilessly beat their feet
When Richard Wernbrand would be released 14 years later, and he would come and speak to the American churches and all the churches that would have him, I even talked to a friend who heard him.
He said he would have to walk up to the pulpit in bare feet.
He was wearing a suit and the likes, but he couldn't wear
regular shoes like the rest of us because his feet were so beaten and bruised and so he would pretty much mostly just always have to wear go barefooted.
He tells the story of being in this Romanian prison.
His wife would be taken and put into a work camp to build a bridge along the waterway for you know
Forces to be able to move into the next region and conquer and these type of things She would be brutalized and beaten his son ended up in an orphanage and He was beaten every day and he was told every time you pray we're gonna beat you and Every time he would pray they'd open the cell and they'd just beat him
him and a handful of other pastors because they were all thrown in there they would have a Bible study and the amazing thing and here's something for us church they didn't have Bibles so they would give Bible studies off of scriptures that they memorized and stories that they memorized and Richard would tell the story goes so we would gather and have a Bible study and we knew that whoever was teaching would be dragged out and beaten because that's just what they did to feel good so we would we knew as my turn to
preach I'll get beaten and so then they drag us out they beat us and they throw us back into the cell then we sit down we have the Bible study and he goes everybody was happy they were happy because they beat us we were happy because we got to have a Bible study this is faith that just amazes but he tells this story he says I'm praying and the guard looks through the little people into my cell and he sees me praying he opens the door
And he comes up, because now he's gonna beat me.
And he goes, what in the world could you possibly be praying for?
You've lost your church, you've lost your ministry, you've lost your freedom, you've lost your home, you've lost your wife, you've lost your sons and orphaned.
What could you possibly have left to pray for?
And Richard Gormbrand looks at him, his captor and his beater.
And he says, I was praying for you.
to which the captor and the beater left him.
And Richard Wernbrand will say, it's not how much you can endure.
It's how much you can love.
And maybe you feel like you're a prisoner.
Hopefully you've settled of Jesus Christ.
And maybe there's somebody that has caused this in your life.
Paul had a cause.
It was for the Gentiles.
And now, today, the Lord is speaking to you.
It's not how much you can endure this.
How much can you love them still in the middle of this?
I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for you Gentiles.
Verse two, he goes on,
If indeed you have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God, which was given to me for you.
Again, as we started this word dispensation, it means a set order.
It means how things will be administrated, how things are going to work.
Theologians and there's books upon books and they're great to read I encourage you some people take the dispensation they go a little too far with it and Others You know see it for what it is that it's just this God saying this is how I'm gonna work This is what I'm gonna do and nothing can change that and there was a period of time you know that if you wanted to come before God or
on your righteousness, you had to keep the law perfectly, the Ten Commandments.
That's what we know as the Old Testament.
No one could keep it.
Everybody was desperate.
Everybody was guilty.
But it was what we would know as the dispensation of the law.
and these type of things.
And here the Lord, he's given this amazing beautiful word that he's speaking to you.
Here's the dispensation of how it's gonna be from this writing for 2,000 years now until he comes for us and it's gonna be through grace and nothing can change that.
If indeed you heard the dispensation of the grace of God which was given to me for you.
I'm going to give this and it's my cause and nothing can stop me, even prison, even the beatings and everything that will come with that.
And then he goes on to say in verse three, how that by the revelation he made known to me the mystery, as I briefly written already, we're going to talk about that.
He's going to talk about the Jews and the Gentiles becoming one body that the whole world goes, this is impossible, especially the Jews.
The Gentiles are going to go, wait, you mean there's access to
He's gonna say yeah through grace God's riches is Christ expense you can come into the presence of God be received by him and they're gonna go this isn't This is mind-blowing what's mind-blowing for the Gentiles to believe that the God of Israel would receive them but it's mind-blowing to the Jews that the God of Israel would receive the Gentiles and so he says again how that by revelation is
He made known to me the mystery as I have briefly written already.
Well, what's a mystery?
And we're going to see here in verse four and five, it's revealed to him by the spirit of mystery isn't, you know, what you see in the movies and these type of things.
Try to figure it out.
A mystery is something that no one could understand, even us today without the spirit of God revealing it.
It's a mystery.
We can't figure these things out.
Then the Spirit reveals it.
And then all of a sudden we go, OK, I get it.
This is totally clear and understanding.
Verse 4 and 5, by which when you read, you may read, you may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ.
Verse 5, which in other ages was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed by the Spirit,
to his holy apostles and the prophet.
He's making this statement, understanding my knowledge and the mystery like no one can understand these things.
But now here we read that the spirit comes and speaks these things.
And here's Paul back to his life.
Here's the testimony that he gives.
And we'll see how it is relatable to us.
Acts 22 verse three.
I am indeed a Jew."
So he's given his account why he's in prison or, you know, why this riot happened and all these born of Tarsus of Silcia, but brought up in the city at the feet of Gamelia, taught according to the strictness of our father's law, and was zealous towards God as you all are today.
So Paul's saying,
Man, I was raised by Gamal and Gamalia and everybody would know this is like the greatest and history will speak it and read about him in the New Testament.
He was like the greatest mind and greatest teacher in the Jewish in Israel.
Paul was raised and taught by him.
So Gamalia, he's talking to him.
The greatest mind still, he didn't get it.
So I'm raised, I'm taught by these, but I don't get all this stuff.
And they would have been reading these verses and still been going, I don't get it.
I don't understand how this could be.
And here's the Old Testament prophets that he would be speaking of that they would all know, Hey, this was spoken, but we don't quite get how it's going to happen.
Isaiah 11 verse 10.
And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse that's talking to David who shall stand the lineage David who shall stand as a banner to the people for the Gentiles shall seek him and his resting place shall be glorious.
It's Jesus Christ through the lineage of King David there in Bethlehem birthed Isaiah 42 verse one.
Behold my servant capital S.
whom I uphold, my elect one in whom my soul delights.
I put my spirit upon him and he will bring forth justice to the Gentiles."
They're like, I don't understand this because it's still a mystery until the Spirit's going to reveal this.
It's none other than Jesus Christ making the two one.
Isaiah 42 verse 6.
I the Lord have called you in righteousness and will hold your hand.
I will keep you and give you as a covenant to the people as a light to the Gentiles.
He's going to use the Jewish people and the law that was given through them and the scriptures.
And of course the Messiah would come through the Jewish people.
Isaiah 49 verse six, indeed he says, is it a small thing that you should be my servant to rise up the tribe of Jacob and to restore the
preserved ones of Israel, I will also give you as a light to the Gentiles that you should be my salvation to the ends of the earth.
And in Isaiah 60 verse 3, the Gentiles shall come to your light and the kings to the brightness of your rise.
And all these are sermons and studies in themselves and magnificence of what he's talking about these type of things.
But here's what Paul
would read here's what they would study under Gimelia and nobody could understand this truly in its fullness hence why the Jews mind would be blown and then this is after Christ they see Jew they see Gentiles at the temple and they want to kill Paul for bringing them they want to kill these they were Jewish men but they think they're Gentiles they want to kill them because they still don't get this that God's going to give salvation to the Gentiles through Jesus Christ Paul's like
Of course, this was a mystery, but God revealed it to me through the Spirit.
And there's an application for us, John 14, 26.
But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to you remembrance all things that I said to you.
Paul would never understand this, except the Holy Spirit comes and speaks this to him.
And here's the application for you and me.
It's why we sit and study the word.
It's why we sit and we go, Father, same spirit that Paul was given, same spirit that I've been given.
And these scriptures that are before me, maybe I don't understand all of it, but I know that you will teach me all things.
How do I take this word and apply it to my relationship?
How do I take this word and apply it to my cause?
How do I take this word and apply it to my personal holiness?
I can remember it.
Hearing scripture, but the spirit hasn't revealed it to me yet.
And then looking back when the spirit did reveal it to me,
and then go, now it makes all the sense.
I am not going to understand, we are not going to understand this word, but the helper of John 1426, the Holy Spirit whom the Father will send in my name, he will teach you all things and bring to you remembrance all things that I said to you.
Man, I tell you, I can remember, man, what are we talking?
40 years ago, yeah, I would have been in middle school then.
Anyways, I was working up at the aircraft division building helicopters, Sikorsky helicopters.
I'd see the crazy guy holding the sign in the end zone of NFL games.
Anybody know who I'm talking about?
That was his cause.
He'd wear that crazy hair,
And they'd have a sign and what did his sign say?
John 316.
And so he would sit in the end zone.
So every time the team would kick a field goal or be, you know, trying to score a touchdown, there he is.
It was genius.
I was like, now I look back and go, man, that's genius.
Now when he sat there, I go, that's just crazy.
I wasn't saved yet.
I'm going, that's just crazy.
What is, you know, you're coming to an NFL game, then you start piecing it together, go, wait, this is the same guy that was at the Denver game, now he's at the Pittsburgh game, now he's at the Chicago game, now he's at the Baltimore game, and obviously he's not, that's not his team, because he's all over the place.
He would even buy Super Bowl tickets and sit in the Super Bowl with that crazy multi-colored hair wig, and that sign that says John 316.
And so one day,
I said to myself, I go, what is John 3 16?
I know it's in the Bible.
And I remember when I would go to the tool crib, there was this little humble tiny man in his sixties and he controlled the tool crib.
Obviously you just can't walk around with tools.
Every tool has to be accounted for when you're working with aircraft.
So you can't just grab tools, work on the airplane, and go home, and then we find out you left the wrench inside the engine cowl.
And so you would go, especially for the specialized tools, you go to Mauricio's crib, I need the torque wrench, had to be calibrated, or I need 50 screws, 50 rivets,
And then everything would be accounted for.
But see, Mauricio would just sit there and wait until you came.
He couldn't do anything else except wait for you to come.
And then he would go get your parts or he would give you the tools that are already present.
He had this little bicycle and he'd ride down to the big warehouse if the parts weren't in there.
And so Mauricio would be sitting there.
And when you came, I'm talking.
every time.
He'd be sitting on his chair desk waiting, reading the scripture.
I can look back and go, I don't ever remember a time that I didn't come to get a tour apart that he wasn't reading the scripture.
So I come to him and he says, wait here.
I'm going to, I'll ride down and I'll get your part.
Mauricio, you know, gets on his little bicycle.
He rides down the production line to go where the parts were being stored that I needed as an aircraft mechanic.
And so he's gone.
I'm sitting there and I go, huh, where's that Bible?
So I walk over and I go, where is this John 316?
Okay.
I look down.
I still remember it 40 some years later.
For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever should believe in him shall not perish but have everlasting life.
Hmm, okay.
Where's my parts?
It didn't, it made no sense to me at all.
At all.
But 10 years later, the spirit of God comes upon me while I'm reading the word in Cocoa Beach, Florida.
reading the whole Bible.
Then I'll say it was a time where God's Word starts coming alive to me and God's Spirit started speaking to me.
It's John 14, but the Helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he began to teach me.
And I remember to come into John 3.16 and I go, I get it now.
You gave your only begotten Son.
It's no longer for God to love the world.
I read that verse under the inspiration of the Spirit and it was for God so loved Ray that he gave his only begotten son that all became alive to me.
And as I read the whole Testament and I read the law that was against me and I knew a judgment that would come for breaking God's holy law.
I said, you know, this isn't good, but somehow I know this ends well for me.
and I just kept reading through and I came to John 316 and the Spirit of God opened it and I got it right then and that's the one I know that I was saved and sealed.
Hey you know one of the things about this story?
We were building mass production of military helicopters.
Many of them are flying I think in fact I'm looking at you I think your daughters might even flown in some of the
helicopters that I built, hundreds and hundreds of workers, thousands of workers on the production line.
Isn't it funny?
For 40 years, I remember a little tiny man in his late 60s named Mauricio that I can still remember his name.
I would have to sit for a real long, hard time to try to remember other co-workers' names.
But I've never forgot Mauricio's name.
And I don't think we ever really ever had a conversation other than Mauricio, I need a torque wrench.
Mauricio, I need 50 rivets.
I think there's a power when the spirit of God's upon you that just can't be denied.
And I'm just encouraged by that and blown away by that.
And God in his timing, he reveals these things, and he makes these things.
He makes these mysteries known.
And I still remember, we got time.
What do you got, dude?
You're going to get snowed in here.
I don't know if anybody knows the Orange Blossom Trail, Orlando.
It's a very interesting place.
The upper end of Orange Blossom Trail is Disney and all the things, all the trinket stores and the putt-putt golfs and all the things of joy and fun.
But eventually, as you start heading in a different direction down Orange Blossom Trail, away from Disney, it just gets harder, harder, harder, darker, darker, darker.
Ratchet, ratchet, ratchet.
drugs, prostitution, and the likes.
And I would go there as a young single man in my 30s, and I would go to Orange Blossom Trail by myself, and I tell 100 stories, and you probably heard them five times already.
But anyways, I would go down there to just preach to whoever would listen to me and share
And I used to, one of my favorite places to go, was a crack house.
Gotta be careful with artificial intelligence, how these things can be cut and sliced into different, very sudden hangs out at cracks houses.
But I would go to this crack house.
It was an abandoned house.
And
There was a three-foot concrete wall and, you know, a little grassy yard going up three or four steps to get to the crack house about 20 yards away.
Well, underneath the steps is where I would sit, and there was a sign because the house was an abandoned house that used to be a psychic house.
And underneath that sign, it would say, fortunes or futures told.
And I would sit under that sign, and I would literally be a light in a dark world, because it was so dark down there.
For the longest time, the Orlando police, you know, for the first dozen times, I think they rolled up on me thinking that they were going to arrest me for buying drugs, but then eventually they looked at my hand, they saw a Bible in hand, and they just rolled past me.
I'd sit underneath that.
psychic sign, and people would be coming down to buy drugs.
And as they would come walking by, they'd see me obviously because I'd stand out.
I'd sit out, and I would go, hey, I can tell your future for you.
And they couldn't resist it.
They just couldn't resist it.
I go, I can tell your future.
And they'd stop and they go, all right, what is it?
I go Jeremiah 29 11.
I know the thoughts that I think think towards you says the Lord thoughts of peace and not of evil to give you a future and a hope.
I get God has a future for you and a hope for you and this isn't it.
And then I would go into the gospel and I can remember time I can tell story after story about some of those moments of
stabbings and attacks upon my personal my person and all the times that the Lord would protect me and we'll say that for another time but I still remember sharing in this person sitting there and it was like you could see the Spirit of God moving and speaking and I could just know this was spiritual
Moment and I just share the gospel I wouldn't go pray this prayer and you're safe because you know where I'm at that people I'm gonna pray this prayer then I'm gonna go by crack I'd say this is what you need to do to receive Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior and You need to speak to him personally on these things and I still remember this guy walking away And he made five steps and he turned away and he goes is this really true?
Because he's saying it's too good to be true
He goes, is this really true what you're telling me?
And I go, would I be here if it wasn't true?
And he goes, no, no.
I just want to, we're going to read a couple of verses just to read through, but you know, we're not too different from Paul.
God gives us his word, reveals it in the spirit, gives us a cause.
And the reason is him.
The cause is what he gives to us.
And by his spirit we can live this victorious Christian life.
By this spirit we have a reason to wake up.
This cause gives us something to live for that's beyond and outside this world.
And I've witnessed from the crack house to the clubhouse.
I've shared Christ with people who were days away from death and I told them you're not gonna
live much longer out here.
And they go, yeah, I know.
And then I've shared with multi-millionaires.
I go, you're as empty as the people I speak to in the crack house.
That's a whole different story there.
But the point I'm making for us, maybe your cause will be to a crack house.
Maybe your cause is going to be to a clubhouse.
Here's what I recognize.
It's the same void.
It's the same emptiness.
Even when they have it all, they still know something's missing.
And here Paul, he's speaking to us.
The mystery was revealed through the Spirit and I do what I do because the Spirit is empowering me.
And then in verse six and seven, just to read through and pray that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ.
through the gospel, verse seven, of which I became a minister according to the gift of grace of God's giving to me by the effective working of His power.
And we started with verse one that said, for this reason, Paul had a cause and his reason was Christ, but his cause was to the Gentiles, same power and the same calling for us.
They are now ours.
And here's a wrap-up that this was the calling through the Old Testament for the Jewish people.
And now here, our brother Peter gives us the same calling that they had.
Now it's ours together.
And it's your personally the non-Jewish.
First Peter 2, 9, and 10, but you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people.
That's what the calling that Israel was, all those verses we read in Isaiah.
That you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light.
who once were not a people but are now the people of God who had not obtained mercy but now have obtained mercy.
Lord, I thank You for this Word.
I thank You for the clarity of it and the simplicity of it and the glory of it.
I thank You that there is an economy, a way of operating that You do.
It's the way that You
Administer, it's the order of the world that you have.
And here we are, Lord.
Your order is very clear.
It's grace.
And that will never be undone by the things of this world.
It will never be undone by the things of a fallen world.
You're going to deal with us by grace.
But Lord, we still live in these times that we do.
And these people, the world needs to hear the message of grace.
And so Father, may we be prisoners of Jesus Christ and the cause that you've spoken to each and every one of us and so what will get us out of the bed in the morning and what we would look forward to living for the cause of Christ.
I thank you.
I bless you in your name.
Amen.
Let's worship one more.
We'll pick up here next week.